SYNTAX: change [name-of-field=]value-of-field make name-of-
field="value-of-field"...

SUMMARY
This command is used to change one or more fields to the values
specified.  The "change" command consists of two clauses, the "change"
clause and the "make" clause.  The "change" clause determines which
entries will be affected by the command.  It uses the same arguments as
the selection clause of a "query" command.  The "make" clause specifies
which field(s) will be changed and the new value(s) of the specified
field(s).

You must be logged in to use "change".

"Change" differs from the "make" command in that it can modify multiple
ph entries simultaneously.  This command can be useful for individuals
with proxy rights to more than one ph entry.  All matching entries for
which the logged in user has proxy will be affected by the command.

The "change" command obeys the Nameserver "limit" option, which can be
used to prevent changing the field contents of more entries than
intended.  To change the limit option from its default of 2 to a smaller
or larger number, type the command "set limit=#", where "#" equals the
maximum number of entries that can be changed.

EXAMPLE
The following hypothetical scenario illustrates how, under special
circumstances, "change" can be used as a convenient substitute for the
"make" or "edit" command:

John Doe is a network administrator with proxy rights to the ph entries
for most or all of the faculty and staff in his building.  All of his
users receive their faxes on a single fax machine in the building and
would like the phone number of the fax machine added to their ph entries.
Instead of modifying the "fax" field for each user individually, John
can use the the "change" command to edit the fax fields of all entries
for which he has proxy.  Before doing so, however, he must set the
"limit" option to a number equal to or greater than the number of entries
he intends to modify.  John's ph session might look something like this:

ph> login j-doe1
200:j-doe1:Hi how are you?
ph> set limit=50
200:Done.
ph> change proxy=j-doe1 make fax="(217) 333-3333"
200:33 entries changed.

SEE ALSO: edit, add, delete, login, query, make
