Syntax: fields [name-of-field]

The "fields" command is used to view the list of fields that are defined
in the Nameserver database.  The output of the "fields" command consists
of two lines describing each field.  For example, here are the lines
that describe the "password" field:

-200:7:password:max 16 Change Encrypt
-200:7:password:User's nameserver password.

Each line begins with a Nameserver reply code of "-200"; this can be
safely ignored.  The next thing in each line is the field id number (in
this case, "7").  This too is of small interest.  Next comes the name
of the field ("password").  From this point on, the two lines differ.
The first line continues with the maximum length of the field (in this
case, "max 16", meaning the field can be no more than 16 characters
long), followed by a set of field attributes ("Change Encrypt").  The
second line is a brief description of what the field is intended to
hold.

A field's attributes determine how the field behaves.  Here is a list
of the attributes you are likely to encounter and their meanings:

Change     - the field can be changed by the owner of the entry
Default    - the field is printed (displayed) if no fields were
             specified in a query with a return clause
Encrypt    - the field must be encrypted before transmission
ForcePub   - the field is viewable/searchable regardless of the
             contents of the "suppress" field
Indexed    - the field appears in the Nameserver's index; all
             Nameserver lookups must include at least one indexed
             field
Lookup     - the field can be used in queries
NoPeople   - no entry of type "person" may include this field;
             i.e., the field is limited to non-person entries such
             as campus units, groups, weather info., etc.
Public     - anyone is allowed to see the contents of the field

To view the description for a single field, rather than the entire list
of fields defined in the Nameserver database, specify the name of the
field you want to see; e.g., "fields email".

SEE ALSO: query, edit, make
