SYNTAX: switch [-rRmMbBlLT] [-t name-of-type]

SUMMARY
The "switch" command is used to change ph switches during a session; it
can also be used to view the current switch settings.  Switches exist
to control the following things:

 
  Reformatting   - whether or not ph reformats alias and email information.
                   The -R switch turns this ON (the default);
                   -r turns it OFF.

  Paging         - whether or not ph uses a paging program for its output. 
                   The -M switch turns this ON (the default);
                   -m turns it OFF.

  Beautification - whether or not ph beautifies the results of queries.
                   The -B switch turns this ON (the default);
                   -b turns it OFF.

  Labelling      - whether or not ph prints labels for fields.
                   The -L switch turns this ON (the default);
                   -l turns it OFF.

  Type           - what entry type ph uses by default.
                   The -T switch turns this OFF (the default);
                   "-t name-of-type" turns it ON.  Turning it on
                   has the same effect as adding "type=name-of-type"
                   to every query.  The default type can be overridden
                   when turned on by specifying a type.  See "type"
                   for further explanation.

VIEWING SWITCH SETTINGS
You must be in ph's interactive mode to use the "switch" command.  To
view the current settings, just type "switch" with no arguments at the
"ph>" prompt.  You will get a display similar to:

  ph> switch
The following things can be changed with "switch":

  Paging is ON; use "switch -m" to turn it off.
  Email reformatting is ON; use "switch -r" to turn it off.
  Query beautification is ON; use "switch -b" to turn it off.
  Label printing is ON; use "switch -l" to turn it off.
  Edit confirmation is OFF; use "switch -C" to turn it on.
  Default entry type is OFF; use "switch -t name-of-type" to set
  it to "name-of-type".
  Default field list is default; use "switch -f field1,field2,..."
  to set it to "field1,field2,...".

The following things cannot be changed with "switch":

  Connected to server ns.cso.uiuc.edu at port 26880
  The .netrc file was read.

(Note that the .netrc, Server, and Port options cannot be controlled
from inside ph.  They are available, however, when typing ph commands
from the operating system prompt [command mode].)

SETTING SWITCH SETTINGS (say that three times fast)
Switch settings are made just like on the command line; one or more
switches preceded by hyphens.  For example, to turn Paging OFF, type:

  ph> switch -m
  ph>

Changes in ph switch settings are only in effect for the current
interactive session.  Once you exit ph, they return to their default
settings.

SEE ALSO: manpage, type, interactive_mode, command-line_mode
