SUMMARY
The "email" field should contain the specific account and machine name
at which you receive mail.  The information in this field tells users
at this campus and other locations how to reach you by electronic mail.
It is also used by the Nameserver for routing e-mail with addresses
based on names or aliases.

The information in the "email" field is NOT automatically filled in
during regular Nameserver database updates.  You, as the owner of your
ph entry, are entirely responsible for making sure that your "email"
field is filled in and up to date.  Because the "email" field is used
by the Nameserver electronic mail delivery service, it is especially
important that the contents of this field be accurate.

In general, "Internet style" addresses are recommended for the
"email" field.  Internet style addresses take the form:
"userid@fully.qualified.domain.name".  Examples of internet style
addresses for several computers on which UIUC students and staff
commonly receive mail are given below:

   VMD: userid@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu

   UX1: userid@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu

   UXA: userid@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu

   UICVMC: userid@uicvmc.aiss.uiuc.edu

The text "userid" in the above examples should, of course, be replaced
with your specific login ID; e.g., "ward@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu".

Note: Although it is technically possible to enter more than one e-mail
address in the "email" field, this practice is strongly discouraged.
If you have more than one e-mail account and/or would like tell people
how to reach you via a UUCP or BITNET style address, it is recommended
that you put such information in the "other" field of your ph entry.

UPDATING YOUR "EMAIL" FIELD
To update your "email" field, you must first login to ph (see help on
"login").  Once logged in, you can use the "edit" or "make" command to
modify your entry.  For example:

  make email="paul@uxc.cso.uiuc.edu"

  edit email  (You will be placed in the default text editor,
              usually vi.  Enter your current e-mail address
              and save the file.)

The "register" command also provides a convenient method for updating
one's "email" field. It registers the account from which you logged in
to ph as the electronic mail address in your ph entry.  For example, if
you logged in to ph from the CCSO mainframe "ux1" and your login ID on
"ux1" was "smythe", the "register" command would put the following
information into your "email" field: "smythe@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu".

To use "register", you must first login to the Nameserver (see help on
"login").  Then, simply type "register" at the "ph>" prompt. The account
into which you are currently logged will automatically be entered into
your "email" field.  If a different address was already in your "email"
field, the "register" command will overwrite it with your current account
information.

Note: The methods described above for modifying your "email" field apply
specifically to the Unix ph client and may or may not work with the ph
client you use.  The "edit" command works with most clients that have
been modelled on the Unix client.  At the time of this writing, the
"register" command was only available through the Unix client.

SEE ALSO: e-mail, edit, make, fields, login, introduction, vi,
register, clients
