SUMMARY
The "no_update" field controls whether or not your Nameserver entry is
overwritten with data held by the Office of Payroll (for faculty and
staff) or the the Office of Admissions and Records (for students).

By default, the update process that occurs once a year for faculty/staff
and four times a year for students overwrites the contents of certain
fields in the ph database with information provided by the two
above-named offices.  If you have customized your ph entry and do not
want your modifications to be overwritten during an update, use the
"make" or "edit" command to enter some text into the "no_update" field
of your ph entry.  The presence of any data in the "no_update" field
will prevent all but the "name" and "curriculum" fields from being
updated (the latter two fields are always updated and are, in any case,
not changeable by the owner of the entry).

EXAMPLES
To change your "no_update" field, you must first login to the Nameserver
(see help on "login").  Then, to prevent your ph entry from being updated
automatically, use one of the following commands:

   make no_update="yes"

or

   edit no_update   (You will be placed in the default text
                    editor, usually vi on Unix systems.  Insert
                    any text into the empty file and save the
                    file.)

If your "no_update" field contains data, and you wish to remove it in
order to permit the periodic update of your ph entry, use one of the
following commands:

   make no_update=""

or

   edit no_update   (You will be placed in the default text
                    editor, usually vi on Unix systems.  Delete
                    all text in the file and save your changes.)

Note: The methods described above for modifying your "no_update" field
apply specifically to the Unix ph client and may or may not work with
the ph client you use.  The "edit" command works with most clients that
have been modelled on the Unix client.

SEE ALSO: edit, make, policy, update, fields, vi
