PH RESTAURANT, PIZZA PARLOR, TAVERN, AND DONUT SHOP INFORMATION

The ph entries relating to restaurants, pizza parlors, taverns and donut
shops are organized as follows:

The "name", "address", and "phone" fields are set to the proper name,
the address (possibly with description), and the phone number or the
establishment respectively.

The "nickname" field is set to one or more of the following types of
eating establishments:

   restaurant  - An establishment that is primarily a restaurant, deli,
                 sweet shop, or bar that serves or delivers food other
                 than pizza.
   bar         - An establishment that has a sit-down bar or lounge where
                 liquor is served, but also serves food.
   pizza       - An establishment that serves or delivers pizza.
   tavern      - An establishment that serves liquor only, no food.
   donut       - An establishment that is primarily a donut shop.

If the establishment is a restaurant that also serves pizza, it has both
restaurant and pizza in the "nickname" field.  If the establishment is
a restaurant with a bar or lounge, then both restaurant and bar appear
in the "nickname" field, and so on.

The "hours" field is set to the hours that food is served in the case
of establishments that serve or deliver food.  It is set to the hours
that liquor is served in the case of taverns.  If the establishment is
a restaurant with a bar, the bar hours are listed in the "text" field.
Hours are listed as day of the week (Su, Mo, Tu, We, Th, Fr, and Sa)
followed by the time of day from 0:00 (midnight) to 23:59.  Hours for
a given day are listed with the day in which the establishment opened;
i.e,. if the restaurant closes after midnight, there is not a separate
listing for the new day.

The "other" field contains a more specific description of the type of
establishment and can be helpful for narrowing down searches for
particular types of food, drink, or services.  If the "nickname" refers
to the establishment as a restaurant, then the "other" field will first
either refer to it as finedining, family, fast, deli, sweets, tavern,
or carryout and deliver.  It then will attempt to describe its cuisine.
At present the possibilities include: american, bavarian, cajun, creole,
chinese, eclectic, italian, french, mexican, middle-eastern, pizza, and
viennese.  If the "nickname" field is set to pizza or donut, then this
is reiterated in the "other" field.

The "text" field gives a more detailed description of the establishment.
It attempts to describe specialties, special hours (for example, of the
lounge), whether you can get a full meal or perhaps just breakfast.  It
also attempts to list what beers are on tap and what the bar specialties
may be.  If reservations are accepted or recommended, this is listed
too.  Finally it indicates whether checks or credit cards (listed as
CC) are accepted.  Checks may be limited to local checks with quite a
bit of ID and credit cards may be limited to a few special cards.

The "revision" field, if present, states when this information was
gathered or last revised.

The "type" field for all items in the Nameserver restaurant guide is
always set to "food" and "phone".

The restaurant information in the Nameserver was mainly obtained from
the "Guide to Dining in Champaign-Urbana" published by the Champaign-
Urbana Visitors' Bureau.  Some information also comes from the Champaign
County City Clerk's Office.  New restaurants were discovered by driving
and walking around town.  All of this information was verified and
expanded upon either by telephone calls or in-person visits.  The
restaurant information has not been updated since summer of 1991.  Some
restaurant data may, therefore, be out of date.

EXAMPLES
If you already know the name of the restaurant you want to locate, set
the "type" field specifier to "food" followed by all or part of the name
of the restaurant.  (Note: The "type" field specifier [i.e. "type=food"]
is not required, but its use in the selection clause of the query will
limit the search to those items in the Nameserver database that are part
of the restaurant guide):

   ph type=food yen ching

   ph type=food original pancake house

If you want to locate all restaurants that serve a certain type of
cuisine or offer a particular type of service, set the "other" field
specifier to indicate the type of food or service in which you are
interested.  In such cases, you must also either give a name or indicate
one of the five types of eating establishments used in the nickname
field of the database: restaurant, bar, pizza, tavern, or donut:

  ph type=food other=chinese restaurant

  ph type=food other=finedining restaurant

Creative use of additional field specifiers in the selection clause of
the query can help you identify establishments that meet rather rigid
or broad criteria as shown below.

The following example finds all restaurants that serve Italian food and
accept credit cards:

  ph restaurant other=italian text=CC

The next example finds all bars in Champaign that serve Michelob Dry
beer:

  ph bar text=michelob text=dry address=champaign

The final example finds all Urbana pizza parlors that offer thick-crust
pizza and deliver:

  ph pizza text=thick text=delivery address=urbana

SEE ALSO: query, type
